All right, guys.
So we finished the about page.
Now we're going to move on to the work, which is going to be a set of images that will have a transition
overlay.
So we're going to be using Transition Transform some other stuff as well.
So let's jump into VS code and what I'm going to do is copy everything from the about dot HTML and I'm
going to create a new file in the DIST folder called Work HTML and then we'll go ahead and paste that
in and let's change the title.
We'll just say my work and then we want to move the class of current from about to work and then let's
delete everything except for the footer.
So all the sections.
You can get rid of all these and we'll just keep the footer.
So now if I save this and we go back and we click on work, it should just look like this.
All right.
So the work page is it's basically just going to have one section, which is going to be the gallery
we could call it.
So let's just say section A and let's say or we'll just say, yeah, we'll say gallery here
and we're just going to add a section.
Let's give it an ID of work, dash a and actually I want to give it a class of text center and let's
do py-3.
I'm going to put it in a container.
We're going to add our H two with a class of section title and let's just say my work.
And then underneath that, we'll put a class of bottom dash line and underneath that we'll put a paragraph
with the class of lead.
And let's just say check out some of my projects.
Um, yeah.
So we'll do that.
And then underneath that we're going to have a grid, so we're going to have a class of items and then
each item will be a div and I'm going to give it a class of item.
And then inside there we'll have a class of item dash image.
And let's put in our first image which is going to be it's going to have a source of image slash items
slash item one dot PNG.
So that's our first image.
Then we want to go outside of the item image and create another div with the class of item dash text.
And inside here we're going to have another div with the class of item dash text, dash wrap and we're
going to have a category and a title.
So the first is going to be a paragraph with the class of item dash, text, dash category and let's
say design.
And then under that we're going to have an H two, which, which we'll have the title, we're going
to say item, dash, text, dash title and we'll say great gradients.
So these are just sample projects and they're just stock images.
So what I'll do now is just copy the whole div with the class of item because we're going to have quite
a few of these nine to be exact.
So let's do two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
And then we just want to change some of the info for some of these.
So that's the first one.
The second one we're going to change the image to item two, we're going to change the category to UI,
Dash UX, and the title is going to be World Experience.
And some of these titles might be a little weird.
It's just kind of the first thing that came to mind when I saw the image.
So this will be Image three, and the category is going to be photography, photography and design.
And then the title for this is going to be vanishing.
Okay.
So this one here.
So we have to three.
This will be item four.
And let's see, item four is going to be category of design.
And let's do Gap, say Gap Inc.
And then let's see, this is going to be five.
So five is going to be the category of mobile, let's say mobile UI design.
And we'll say face the experience.
So we have here it will be image six and category is going to be design concept and it's going to be
busy a curves.
Got seven.
Item seven is going to be photography
and the title is going to be Doc Ponder.
Okay.
So we got two more.
This will be eight.
Image eight.
And this is going to be web applications
and it's going to be called it's just a restaurant app.
So let's say rest grant app.
And then this final one here, it's going to be image nine or item nine and it's going to be, let's
say, social network concept and we'll call this friend feed.
So if we take a look now, it's going to look like this.
Just very large images, small text.
So obviously we need to add some styling here.
Now, there's a lot of styling that goes into this.
So what I want to do is just create its own sass file.
So I'll do that if I have a page or part of an application that has just a ton of styling, I'll put
it in its own sass file because in the end it all, it's all going to just be compiled into our main
CSS.
So and if you wanted to, you could have another CSS file get compiled, just leave off the underscore.
But I'm just going to create a new sass file in the source folder called Underscore and I'm going to
call it item underscore, grid dot CSS.
Now, when you create a new a new partial, you might want to restart your server with control C and
then PM run sass.
If you don't see any changes that you make in your sass files, always try that because sometimes node
sass can just muck up a little bit and not you won't show your changes until you restart.
So let's grab the items and we want to display as a grid.
So all the items we want a three column grid.
So we'll do grid dash template dash columns and let's do a repeat and we'll repeat three times one far.
All right.
And then I'm just going to add a light box shadow here and we'll do zero five pixel blur, ten pixel
and then zero.
And then for the color, I'm just going to do our GBA, which is red, green, blue alpha and let's
just do a dark so zero for our GBA and then 0.3 for the alpha.
And if I save that and we take a look, you'll see that now our images in all our items are in a grid.
Now we're going to let's see, I'm trying to think of how I should do this.
Um, you know, let's do the item, the core item styles first along with the hover effects and then
we'll, we'll move this stuff off the screen because ideally we don't want this to show at first until
we hover over and then we want to have it basically come in with the overlay.
So let's do that.
We'll take the item and everything else we do is going to go in here because everything is prefixed
with item.
We have like item, dash, image, item, dash, text, text wrap.
So we can just use amp or stamp dash and then whatever.
So for the item itself, we want to position relative.
Everything is pretty much going to be positioned absolute inside of this item.
So we want to position it this relative.
We want the background to be the main color.
Okay, we'll set the overflow to hidden and then we want to add the overlay.
So we're going to use Ampersand Colon after.
Okay.
We've created overlays like this before.
We need to put in content some quotes, and let's position this absolute within its container or within
the item.
And then we're going to do display
block and for the background we're just going to inherit.
So we get the main color and then the opacity.
I'm going to set just slightly translucent.
So we'll do 0.9 and then let's say top from the top zero, from the left zero, and then we want to
go all the way across.
So 100% again, we're just creating the overlay here.
So 100% and then we want to add our transform.
So transform is going to be scale to translate X.
So we want the we want it off screen at first.
So let's do -75% and then let's do translate
why that's also going to be -75%.
We're pushing it to the left and then we want rotate.
Rotate is going to be -28 degrees and then we'll add our transition.
So when we hover over it, we're going to we're going to transition the transform property, oops,
transform.
We'll do it over 3 seconds.
And instead of using like ease or ease in and out, we're going to use cubic BCA which allows us to
kind of change the speed up and stuff like that are the curves.
So we're going to do 00.21, 0.3 and one, and you can mess around with it if you want.
But let's save that and we can see the overlay over the text here.
But this is not going to be here afterwards after we we we get down to that part.
So the overlay is not showing, which is what we want because we want to bring it in when we hover.
So let's go back and let's go outside of this after but still within the item.
And we want to bring in main color overlay.
All right.
So to do that, we're going to do at not at ampersand hover.
And then we also want to grab on to after, which is where our overlay is and we're going to do transform.
Say Scale two.
Actually, I'm just going to copy this because we're essentially doing the same thing, except we want
to bring it into view.
So we want to do zero here instead of -75.
All right.
So let's save that and go back.
And now you can see it's coming in.
All right.
And if you mess with these values for the BCA, like if I do one, it'll change the curve.
So you can see that it actually changes the speed because it changes its place.
The curve up here because it's outside, it's -75% over.
So 0.2, I think is a good value.
All right.
Now, we also want to scale the image a little bit on hover, make it zoom in a little bit.
So scale image on hover.
So we're going to say ampersand, colon, hover, and we want to grab on to the item dash image class
so we can do ampersand, dash image and let's say opacity.
I'm sorry, not opacity transform and we'll scale.
Let's scale 1.2 on hover.
So now if we go and we hover, you can see that the image is scaling up and we're getting that overlay.
Next thing is I want to bring the text in on hover.
Although we haven't hit, we haven't hidden the text yet, but we will.
So let's say bring in text on hover.
So we're going to do ampersand, colon, hover, and then Ampersand Dash text.
And we want to set the opacity to one because we're going to set it to zero by default.
But when we hover, we want it to set to one and we also want to bring it in with translate y, so translate
y, and we want to just say zero, which will be its resting position.
All right.
And right now, it's not going to do anything because we haven't dealt with the default text, basically
where it should rest by default.
So let's deal with the image first.
So we're going to add here ampersand, dash image, which is the item image class.
Set the height to auto set of transform.
Actually, I don't think we need to transform.
Let's do display block because an image is is inline by default and then add a transition.
Actually, you know what, we do need to do this.
We need to deal with the translate z so we want to add a transform for a translate Z.
And set that to zero and then set the transition to that transform and let's say 750 milliseconds and
we'll add the same cubic BCA value that we have up here.
So just copy that and that should be good.
All right.
Now we also want to grab on to the image before pseudo selector.
So we're going to do ampersand image before and set the content to just quotes.
And let's also set this to display block.
And then I'm going to add a padding top of 75% in an overflow of hidden.
So that should take care of the actual image container this right here item image.
Now for the actual image, we want to position that absolute within it.
So let's do ampersand, dash image and then IMG and position absolute top zero.
Left zero set the width to 100% height.
We should be able to just set to auto and then line height.
We'll set to zero as well.
So that takes care of the image.
Not really any difference yet.
Now for the text, remember, we want to hide that by default.
We also need to move it.
We need to we need to use, transform, translate to move it.
So let's go ahead and do the text.
We're going to position this absolute.
Let's set it to the top zero position.
And.
Left.
Zero position actually going to do zero on all sides.
So top left, bottom right, zero.
Now the opacity by default, I'm going to set to zero because we want it to kind of fade in and then
let's just make sure it's aligned center and let's add a Z index of one so that we make sure that it's
on top and we can read it.
We'll set the color to white.
And as far as the transitions go, we want to transition the opacity.
Let's see.
Actually, you know what?
Let's yeah, we'll just do opacity and then the transform.
So opacity will do 500 milliseconds and that same cubic BCA value.
So paste that in and then let's put a comma here so we can add another one for transform, which I actually
haven't added yet.
So transform.
500 milliseconds, same cubic BCA and then let's actually put the transform above it.
So transform we're just going to take translate Y and set that to -20% by default.
And then up here, this is where we bring it in.
So we set the opacity from 0 to 1 and then transform, translate Y from -20% to zero on hover.
All right.
So we also have the text wrap to deal with, which goes around the title and the category.
So let's add here text dash wrap.
We want the width to be 100% and the position to be absolute.
Okay.
Actually, let's put the absolute first position, absolute with and then from the top, let's move
it down 50%.
And then we also want to translate y -50.
So translate.
I mean, transform.
Translate why and we're going to do -50%.
Okay.
So that's the text wrap.
Now, the text title, let's just format that.
So we'll do ampersand, dash text, dash title.
And I'm going to set the font size.
Font size for that to to REM for the title.
And then let's set the padding to zero and let's do one REM and then margin.
I'm just going to do five pixel margin on the top and then the category.
Let's do dash text, dash category.
I want that to be uppercase.
So I'm going to do text transform uppercase.
I also want it to be smaller.
So I'm going to say font size, well, smaller than the title.
So 1.2 REM.
And then I'm going to set an opacity of 0.7 and clear the margin and that should do it.
So let's save and let's go back.
All right.
So something's not right because see, all the text is coming in really fast.
It should actually come in after.
And I think that's because I forgot the delay.
Yeah.
So we want to go to the where the text is and let's add a delay.
So transition dash delay and let's do 300 milliseconds, see if that works.
Yeah.
So it kind of comes in at the same time.
If you want to if you want to mess with any of these values, feel free.
I know it's it's kind of advanced CSS.
So if you want to mess with things and see exactly what does what.
Feel free to do that.
But I think that's good.
I think that looks pretty good.
It has a nice effect.
So I think we're all set.
So in the next video, we're going to start on the contact page, which is pretty simple.
And then after that we'll move to making this responsive.
And then finally we'll go ahead and deploy.